# Begin customizing the project

Lets begin by creating a directory named `app` in the project folder. The app folder will have all our javascript source code.

Create a file `index.js ` at `app/index.js`. This file will serve as the common entry point for both android and ios projects.

Modify the files as follows:

**index.ios.js**
```js
 import app from './app';
 export default app;
```


**index.android.js**
```js
 import app from './app';
 export default app;
```

**app/index.js**

```js
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import {
  AppRegistry,
  StyleSheet,
  Text,
  View
} from 'react-native';

export default class MyProject extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <View style={styles.container}>
        <Text style={styles.welcome}>
          Welcome to React Native!
        </Text>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    justifyContent: 'center',
    alignItems: 'center',
    backgroundColor: '#F5FCFF',
  },
  welcome: {
    fontSize: 20,
    textAlign: 'center',
    margin: 10,
  },
  instructions: {
    textAlign: 'center',
    color: '#333333',
    marginBottom: 5,
  },
});

AppRegistry.registerComponent('MyProject', () => MyProject);
```

As you can see, now we have a single entry point to the code base. Hence both `react-native run-android` and `react-native run-ios` will eventually run the same code `app/index.js`


The code used for this chapter till here can be found on the **branch** `chapter/5/5.1-part-1`.

Now, lets create few directories inside `/app`, that will help us structure our code such that it is modular and easier to maintain.


```sh
cd app
mkdir assets components config pages redux
mkdir routes styles utils
```

So your project directory should now look like this

```
.
├── __tests__
│   ├── index.android.js
│   └── index.ios.js
├── app
│   ├── assets
│   ├── config
│   ├── styles
│   ├── utils
│   ├── components
│   ├── pages
│   ├── routes
│   ├── redux
│   └── index.js
├── app.json
├── index.android.js
├── index.ios.js
├── package.json
└── yarn.lock
```

- `app/assets` - This is where all the images, videos, etc will go in.
- `app/config` - This is where configurations for the app will go in. For example your environment specific config for dev and prod ,etc.
- `app/styles` - This is where your global styles, themes and mixins will go.
- `app/utils` - This is where all the services/utility files such as http utility to make api calls, storage utility, data transformation utility,etc will go.
- `app/components` - The directory will contain all the dumb components. In short these components will only do layouting and wont contain any states or business logic inside them. All the data to these components will be passed in as props. This concept will be explained in much detail later.
- `app/pages` - This directory will hold all the smart component. Smart components are those components which contain business logic and states in them. Their job is basically to pass the props to the dumb components after all the business logic is executed.
- `app/routes` - This is where we will keep all our app's routing logic. This will contain the map between the pages(smart components) and the routes.
- `app/redux` - This will contain all our redux state management files like actions ,reducers, store config, thunks etc.


The code till here can be found in the **branch** `chapter/5/5.1-part-2`
