## Using React-navigation
Using react-navigation is pretty simple once you understand how it works. Unfortunately, their official documentation lacks some explanations. But no need to worry, we will try to fill the gaps in the official documentation in this chapter.
The URL for official documentation: ??TODO Add URL

## How navigation happens in native applications?
When it comes to native apps, the routing is a little different, specially for those who are coming from a WEB development background. There is the concept of stack, screen, etc.

### What is a stack in navigation?
We all have heard of stacks in our college programming classes. Well, this stack is exactly that. Whenever you navigate from one screen to another, the new screen comes on top. The old screen is still there(unless you reset your stack). This mechanism of caching the old pages helps improving performance and making the transitions smoother. Have a look at the below image for example of stack in navigation.

??TODO: ADD IMAGE OF STACK NAVIGATION

## Types of navigators offered by react-navigation
React-navigation offers a bunch of navigators predefined for our use. Lets try to understand all of them one-by-one.

- Stack-navigator: This is most common navigator of all. You will use it for most of the applications. We just explained how stack works in navigation. You define stack navigator by passing the routes object inside StackNavigator function from react-navigation. Each of the screen gets mounted only when you navigate to that particular screen and gets un-mounted only when you go back or manually reset the navigation state.

- Tab-navigator: This is also quite common user interface. Where we have a bunch of tabs and we can swipe between them. We have seen this is facebook, twitter and many other famous apps. react-navigation supports this navigator as well out of the box. The way of defining is pretty much same as of stack-navigator. Only difference is that the routes you define in Tab-navigator gets mounted all at once. So you need to be a little careful when you manage navigating-to/coming from different stack.

- DrawerNavigator: //TODO
