# Setting up the Project

This section covers the basic boilerplate setup of a sample project that we will be using to learn. We believe that one should setup his/her project from scratch or use a minimal boilerplate instead of using a ready made feature rich boilerplate. The reason being , when a developer/team sets up its own boiler plate , they know what exactly is going into the app. A lot of boiler plates have features/libraries which the team will be unaware of and would contribute to the clutter.

### Popular boilerplates review

- create-react-native-app `OR`
- Expo `OR`
- react-native init

React-native has a bunch of options to setup the project. `create-react-native-app`, `react-native init` and `EXPO` are among most popular ones and interestingly all three of them are mentioned in the official website of react-native. It might create a lot of confusion for someone who is starting to know which one to use.

Here is short desciption for each of them:

* __create-react-native-app:__ It is similar to the `creat-react-app`. It has all the necessary tasks to run your application. All the necessary setup has been taken care and you can start hacking around react-native. This is very useful if you are starting to learn react-native and you don't want to worry about anything else. It uses Exponent's open source tools to debug the application. To run the app, all you need to do is install expo client app and scan a QR code. Although its very quick to setup, everything seems like a black-box. Due to this, it can get pretty messy when you want to change a lot of configurations. Hence we do not recommend it for a long term production application.

* __Expo__: It is a third party framework which provides you with a lot of cool features like: sharing your app with anyone while your are developing it, live code changes on your real device by just scanning a QR, generating IPA/APK files for you. We do not recommend using this if your app uses a lot of third party native modules or you wish to hack around the native code since you don't get access to native code out of the box. Refer to this page to know more: [Why not Expo?](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/introduction/why-not-expo.html) Also, It supports only **android 4.4 and up.** which can be a big turn off if you user base has a large number of ** android 4.1 - 4.3 ** users.

* __react-native init:__ This provides you with the very basic setup of the application including native `ios` and `android` folders. This allows you to change native code if required. You would use native android/ios simulators or devices to run your application.You have 2 separate files which defines entry points for android and ios. You can run the dev version of the application by `react-native run-ios` \(It will open the ios emulator and run your app on it\). Here we will need to setup everything from scratch. But on the contrary we get full access to native code and have control over almost everything that is going on with our application. Another factor is, it is easier to upgrade `react-native` and other core libraries using this boilerplate as compared to others. Hence any critical updates can be integrated much easily. **Thus, we recommend this boilerplate for any long term production application**.


Setup instructions for **react-native init** can be found at https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started.html. Open up the page in a browser and select the second tab, **Building Projects with Native Code** and follow the instructions.
