# Custom Native Modules

Although react native has extensive amounts of native module libraries available thanks to the huge open source community around it, sometimes there are specific requirements that arise during the project which needs native platform api access which react native doesn't provide.
As an example : Lets say you are working for a client and they have a custom SDK for authentication. And the client has SDK for iOS, Android and Web. Although you are building native app for Android/iOS on top of a Web technology (React), the irony is that this task suddenly becomes difficult.

**Solution:**
The beauty of React Native is that it is designed to be a bridge between Native code and web technologies. Thus all you need to do is simply integrate the native iOS and android sdks onto the respective native projects and expose the methods and variables via the React Native `Native Modules` methods.

We will discuss how to create custom wrapper modules that can be used to invoke native code from javascript in the next chapters.

On a side note, if the requirement was that we need to integrate a native module that doesn't need to interact with the javascript layer then we can safely integrate the native modules in the respective native projects for iOS and android and not create a react native bridge itself. One such use case can be crash reporters which need to send a crash report if an app crashes. So here you only integrate the crash reporter on the native code base of iOS and android and you do not expose any method to the javascript side. The initialisation also happens when the native app starts.

Thus, technically if a functionality is supported by the native platform, it can be supported in React Native.
