## Mocking modules in Jest

Like other testing frameworks, jest also supports mocking modules, both node_modules and custom JS modules.

Most of the react-native specific utilities are automatically mocked for us(since we are using react-native preset). If you install any other modules which aren't automatically mocked(say a react-native module which has a dependency on NativeModules), you would need to mock the module manually.

### How do you manually mock
While jest supports a bunch of methods for mocking utilities, we suggest doing manual mocks by creating a file with the same file name under `__mocks__` folder adjacent to the module which we are mocking.

```
├── config
├── __mocks__
│   └── react-native-exception-handler.js
├── utils
│   ├── __mocks__
│   │   └── language.util.js
│   └── language.util.js
└── node_modules
```

As you can see above, you can mock both node_modules and your custom defined JS files.
Whenver you import `utils/language.util` file, jest will automatically read from `__mocks__/language.util.js`.

If you would like to unmock a file and read the real source code instead of mocking it, you could do that using `jest.unmock('module_path')` function in the test case.

>Note: You can also use the automock feature of jest by using a function called `jest.genMockFromModule` Though it might not work for some of the modules which returns nested methods and it will only mock the functions which a module exports.

#### Example of automock:
Lets say you want to mock the functions exposed by a node module called `react-native-exception-handler`

Since it is a node_module, we would need to put the mock file inside `__mocks__/react-native-exception-handler`. Refer to the tree above to know where this file will lie

To automock the module, our file would look something like this:
>\__mocks__/react-native-exception-handler.js

```js
const mockedModule = jest.mock('react-native-exception-handler');

module.exports = mockedModule;
```

If we wish to mock this module manually. We need to know what all functions a module exports and mock all of them separately. Our file would look something like this:
>\__mocks__/react-native-exception-handler.js

```js
export default {
  setJSExceptionHandler: jest.fn(),
  getJSExceptionHandler: jest.fn(),
  setNativeExceptionHandler: jest.fn()
};
```

Then in the jest file, we will say that we want to mock a module by doing:

```js
jest.mock('module_path');
```
>NPM modules inside the mock folder residing adjacent to the `node_modules` are mocked by default hence we do not need to specifically mock them.



To know more about the manual mocking in jest, please visit [here](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/en/manual-mocks.html#content).
