# Theme Variables

In general every app should have few fixed font sizes, colors, spacing, etc. This is done so that the app looks consistent across screens.
Now this can be achieved by keeping a convention across the app.
For example, the devs and UX designers can decide **fontSize**:

- 16 - Large
- 14 - Medium
- 12 - Small

Hence our style sheet may look like this :

**`styles.js`**
```js
import { StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
export default StyleSheet.create({
  largeButtonText: {
    fontSize: 16,
    fontWeight: 'bold'
  },
  largeHeaderText:{
    fontSize: 16
  },
  mediumHeaderText: {
    fontSize: 14,
    color:'blue'
  }
});
```

Even though this convention is good and will help you maintain consistency in small,medium and large text sizes across the app,
it has few fundamental faults:

- Business/Marketing team may come up with a new requirement that now they want the large font size to be 18 instead of 16.
  Now as a developer, you will need to make changes in the entire app and replace every instance of fontSize:16 with fontSize:18, which kind of sucks!.
- A new developer who joined the team might not be aware of all the conventions followed by the team and may create a component with fontSize other than 12,14 or 16 thus accidently destroying the code standard/convention.


Enter **`theme variables`**.

In order to solve the above mentioned issues we introduce a common file `theme.style.js` which will be located at `app/styles/theme.style.js`.

In the theme file we define our `theme` variables as follows:

**`app/styles/theme.style.js`**
```js
export default {
  FONT_SIZE_SMALL: 12,
  FONT_SIZE_MEDIUM: 14,
  FONT_SIZE_LARGE: 16,
  PRIMARY_COLOR: 'rgb(30, 147, 242)',
  SECONDARY_COLOR: 'rgb(238, 167, 2)',
  FONT_WEIGHT_LIGHT: 200,
  FONT_WEIGHT_MEDIUM: 600,
  FONT_WEIGHT_HEAVY: 800
};
```

and we can use it like this

**`styles.js`**
```js
import { StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
import theme from '../styles/theme.style.js';

export default StyleSheet.create({
  largeButtonText: {
    fontSize: theme.FONT_SIZE_LARGE,
    fontWeight: theme.FONT_WEIGHT_HEAVY
  },
  largeHeaderText:{
    fontSize: theme.FONT_SIZE_LARGE
  },
  mediumHeaderText: {
    fontSize: theme.FONT_SIZE_MEDIUM,
    color:theme.PRIMARY_COLOR
  }
});
```

Now our theme file dictates the size of fonts and the primary color, etc.

This gives us two benefits:
- If our business team now tell us to change the font sizes, we can change the theme variables at one place and it gets reflected in the entire app.
- This will enable us to write multiple theme files which inturn adds basic themeing support to our app. For example: we can write two theme files - one for light theme and one for dark theme and give our app users the option to switch the themes.
