# Styling in React Native

In react native we use StyleSheets to write our styling. StyleSheets can be thought of something like a subset of CSS along with few additional helpers for RN. StyleSheets unlike CSS are pure JavaScript objects. This might confuse some web developers in the beginning and introduces a slight learning curve. StyleSheets in React Native are used somewhat similar to that of inline styles in web. Hence, you do not have access to pseudo classes like `:hover`,`:active`, etc.

### Example

Imagine we want to add padding and border to a span. In CSS we will write:

```css
.button {
  padding: 10px;
  text-align: : center;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```
and then we will add this class to our span like this:
```html
<span class="button"> Test </span>
```
Resulting in :

<span style='padding:15px;border:1px solid black;'> Test </span>

In React Native, there is no concept of pixels or classes. Instead, our sizes will be specified in "units" which will then be translated to pixels based on the pixel density of the screen automagically by RN. If we write the same `View` in a React Native StyleSheet, it would look something like this.

>styles.js
```js
import { StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
export default StyleSheet.create({
  button: {
    padding: 10,
    textAlign: 'center',
    borderWidth: 1,
    borderColor: 'black'
  }
});
```

and we will add styles to our View by:

```js
import styles from './styles.js';
```
```html
...
...
...
<View style={styles.button}></View>
```

Note that since we are writing JavaScript objects, immediately we notice that:
- We write each style in its camel-cased version of the CSS
- We then import our StyleSheet into our components and used them by declaring a style attribute as shown instead of classes.
- There are no shorthands like `border:'1px solid black'`

>Just like web, it is very easy to go wrong with CSS and end up with a style code that is unmanageable.
Hence, we would like to introduce few basic guidelines in the next chapters, so that we can get most from our styles.
